---
layout: post
title: 2021 CONSOOM
date: 2022-07-05
category: thots
---

A year in consooming - 2021
A Trio of Isekai
	Mushoku Tensei 8/10
		Before we were graced with a wonderful adaptation I had the pleasure to watch instead of *reading* :nauseous:, MT has maintained a firm position on my radar of "eventually soon tm" works due to the rather exhaustive praise the source material has in depicting a wonderously wrought out narrative on pretty much every level, be it world building, characters, or themes. That background let me have the willingness to give the benefit of the doubt to some of the more questionable elements early on, but regardless of those offputting slices it was plain from the begninning that the story being told had some broad ambition. And that ambition is really what has defined MT to me in comparison to similar works, every turn of the journey continues to grow and feed and nurture this wonderful world and I can't get enough of it. I envy the people 5-10 years from now who will get to binge a 75-100 episode marathon of this story, almost no media can make me feel that craving to binge and now that one is here I only feel pain I can not enjoy it in that way. For now, I'll make do with having wonderful weekend mornings where I wake up to spend a half hour with something I truly love. 

	Tensura 7/10
		My feelings about this show have pretty much been a slow upward climb from a sea of relative "it's pretty cozy and inoffensive". If MT was defined by "ambition", Tensura would have been defined by the lack of it to me. Which is fine, not everything needs to be aiming really high, KRAFT has its own appeal vs a fancy mac casserole. Yet, over the course of SEASON 2 PART 1, Tensura proved it actually does have a degree of its own ambition. The arc developed to bring about Rimuru's ascension to 魔王 was remarkably effective and did a lot to elevate the scope and stakes of the story beyond comfy isekai town building with trivial enemies and shallow diatribes on racism bad peace good. Something merely "alright" becoming genuinely "good" is always a nice sight to see.
		
	Shield Hero 5/10
		I finished it this year after a bit of a prolonged stall from gym closures where I watched it doing cardio and I don't have much to say, or rather much I *want* to say in comparison to the other Isekai. If MT has directly offensive/controversial content, SH has the actually repugnant ideas. It isn't wholly vile, but I certainly feel a bit of bile. The bird is cute. OPs were a bop. Moving on.

The Good Stuff
	Uma Musume 9/10
		I skipped on the original run of Uma Musume in 2018, and for reasons I stand by today. I had little interest in the actual gimmick of the show, and while I can admit it is entirely competent with some neat ideas (especially how it handles Silence Shizuka with respect to the SOURCE MATERIAL), something that merely hits the "competent" bar shouldn't be something to make yourself sit through unless you are enthusiastic about doing so in some way. However, that assessment is kind of irrelevant now that s2 exists. Uma Musume s1 is now a means to an end.
		
		What got me to actually pick up s1 again was the quiet raving s2 recieved over its run this year. I marathoned both in about 3 days, and holy *fuck* what a show. Season 2 drops the cute girls doing cute things vibe that pervaded the first season (which again, is perfectly fine content I appreciate the horsey chubby tummy) and ramps up the sports drama hard. It tells a soul-crushing story about the two sides of the coin that is "chasing after your dreams": one needs to work themself to the bone, put everything they have into it, then hope they get lucky. The cast is tighter, there's a full handful of compelling character arcs, it made me cry on several occasions, I've made my partner physically wince everytime the opening fanfare comes up on spotify while driving from how often I played it, and I'll still rewatch the last episode when I need a good hit of emotion (yep the tear ducts are still working). I really can't recommend checking it out enough. You could probably skip the first season entirely tbh if you tried it and weren't getting anything out of it, the s1 cast is barely present and mostly just serves as cute background support.

		Without a doubt the best piece of media I consoomed this year. 
		
	Horimiya 7/10
		Entirely pleasant rom-com that is your reward for watching too many bad rom-coms that lead you on with both unfulfilled relationships and false promises of character development through contrived drama. Horimiya has gives you good couples, good vibes, good times. I want my kids to be happy.
		
	86 7/10
		While sometimes 86 feels like its hitting above its paygrade in tackling some pretty heavy social commentary, it mostly sticks the landing with a delightful cast of characters, thrilling action, and a plot that keeps me craving the next episode. Except lol this show didn't finish (even in the limited way an adaptation of an ongoing series can) with s2 being a production shitshow I'm mad as fuck.
		
	ODDTAXI
		I didn't actually finish this yet but I would've made friends upset if this wasn't in this category.
		
	NNB 8/10
		It's kind of scary to confront the reality that most all the characters in this show would be older than I was when I watched s1 if we added the 8 years since s1 aired to their canon ages. Otherwise, NNB remains probably the best CGDCT show south of K-On!, ever reminding us of the beauty we can all find in the world around us, be it in nature or human connection, and the joy of sharing that beauty with those who have yet to find it. 
		
	Ousama Ranking 8?/10
		It's still ongoing, but I can confidently say it can stay here. It's fucking good, it will probably stay good, and I look forward to the back-half next year.
		
	Heike
		Modern adaptation of historical fiction epics is a pretty fascinating slice of media and it was very cool seeing how this particular blend remained very loyal to the core material in scope and pacing, while using a new original character as a focal point to provide a lens for the contemporary viewer to remain attached to and emotionally connect with an otherwise pretty dense and hard to engage with narrative. Especially with only Western cultural knowledge of medeival Japanese society and politics standards (and I'm definitely ahead of the curve for the average viewer here). But please Yamada please make something a bit less esoteric next, as nice as this was. Will finish soon tm if SOMEONE ever is actually online for the group watches.
		
	Arcane
		It's awesome watching this after a lifetime of playing League and having most video game themed stories be real garbage. An all around great sci-fi fantasy action nonsense drama. Can't wait for more to follow it as Riot burns their infinitely large wallet on the pile of consoom.
		
	Takagi-san s2 (8/10)
		I more or less stalled it in the fall where I started my job (as I stalled doing... more or less anything), and s3 starting finally spurred me to finish it after rewatching all of s1+what I had seen of s2. Another show that solidly fits in the slice of media I define as "reasons I watch anime", in terms of being the kind of story that just doesn't exist outside of this medium. Extremely cozy show that rewards your love for it and its characters time and time again, and makes me feel nostalgic for the head-over-heels backwards puppy love from when I was 14. I love spending time with this cast, and the last few episodes actually killed me with how cute they were. I hope s3 keeps up and doubles down on the anime-original framing and plot beats that are elevating the manga's material so much. 
	
Unfortunate Events
	Shirobako Movie 7/10
		The more I think about it, the less I want to. It's fine. Shirobako has core good material so anything related can only be so bad, even if that related thing is a shallow victory lap rehash of the successes of the original that adds nothing to the conversation. Wish the first 30 minutes led to a different movie because dang this movie started strong.
	Vivy 5/10
		If anything this year really burned me, it was Vivy. I had very low expectations of this series going into the season but planned to watch it for the conversation, but then it pleasantly surprised me with a really solid front half that was top-notch popcorn and started brewing some nice, if surface level, ideas about human society in wake of the technological singularity. Unfortunately the back half starts on a bizarre misstep of a plot beat, rallies for exactly one really strong episode that seems to set up a strong conclusion for the AI-Human relation theming, then throws it out the window for last arc swimming in thematic dissonance devoid of anything with value other than wow cool robot action and music. Maybe I'm weird but I'd much rather have a story stay mediocre from the start rather than making me want more out of it and giving me material worthy of that "more" before falling to the same simple mediocrity. I can enjoy something just "ok" but not when my brain wants it to be "good".
		At least the OP still slaps, thanks Vivy for the Spotify playlist addition.
		
	To Your Eternity 6/10
		TYE feels like there is *something* going on. There is a really solid heart to this story, and what it wants to convey between the detached locales that share their unique joys and pains of the human experience. Yet, it feels safe. The mark is missed. It doesn't say things particularly well thought out, nor does it execute the simple yet resonant messages sufficiently well. The last arc is straight up bad (and I have yet to actually finish it as of this writing). Some of the execution might be an issue with adaptation, but as is I just think it seems to have tried to bite off more than it can chew, which makes the 7/10 look worse than if it was a show genuinely trying to be a 7.
		
	Beastars s2 5/10
		It's really hard to emphasize just how bizarre the "bad" of this season was. The first season wasn't perfect, the plot of rescuing from the lion yakuza really toed the line of being over the top, but as a whole it was a really effective drama with some clear thematic ideas using the predator/prey zoo society to make parallels to puberty, adolescent anxiety, and rape culture. The core relationships around Legoshi, Haru, and Louis were extremely compelling and I was looking forward to seeing where things went from there.
		
		The "from there" ended up being a complete mess that dropped almost all of that character relationship heart that drove the show forward, a completely nonsense extension of the setting "mystery" that became the core focus, and almost no thematic ideas to speak of. The actual end point of the season makes sense. It is good. The climax on paper is *really* good conceptually for what the related characters' issues are. Yet it's just awfully framed, awfully executed, with next to nothing actually earning this story beat in the narrative. It sucks and if Tensura offered me the joy of going from alright to good, Beastars gave me the sting of great to bad. I'd almost wish I wasn't invested at all. 
		
		At the very least I can respect the author's committment to their fetishes. There's *layers* to the horniness of the ending.

Seasonal Mines
	Dr Stone 6/10
		I don't care for Dr. Stone much, but it's very watchable and the OP was a bop. Will watch s3 whenever it gets shit out of the Jump adaptation machine.
	ZLS:R 7/10
		Didn't enjoy it to the same level I did season one, but it's still good content. Producer is still good, Lily episodes really can't miss, but the gimmick has overstayed its welcome a bit and it needed to grab something a bit fresher to remain as engaging.
	Kanokari 5/10
		It's like 90% bad drama, but there's a real 10% that is genuinely empathatic of emotional pain a lot of young men face if they haven't had any luck with relationships. It doesn't fully execute ideas related to that so as to avoid some criticisms of supporting "incel" behavior and mindset rather than also condemning them, but I think it doesn't take too charitable of a reading to see a resonant voice in there that can touch people like the person I was when I was 18. 
		
		mami is real hot and i would let her gaslight me 
	Osamake 5/10
		I watched it because I enjoy bad romcoms with cute girls. It has bad drams with some ok coms and very cute girls. What more do you want?
	Ganbare Douki-chan 5/10
		i believe in douki-chan's ability to find happiness with her douki-san and her beautiful thighs
	Aquatope 5/10
		I put off writing this bit for last hoping I'd find more to say but I'm giving up, it's just not good and had a very mediocre back-half to follow up the merely okay front one. There's a few crumbs of character writing and atmosphere, but crumbs do not a meal make.
	Kaginado 7/10
		This is my reward for being a Key fan. Enthusiastic by fans for fans gags that got characters from five amazing stories interacting. Everything it is on the tin and more.
	Senpai Uzai 6/10
		An entirely alright doga kobo slice of life moe show with some cute cast dynamics and comfy vibes. I mostly stuck with it because my partner liked the first episode a lot more than I did and we watched it while eating lunch on Saturdays, but to its credit I enjoyed it more over time and I'm moderately invested in the side-couple finding happiness. Bonus points for having the best OP this year.
	Villainess s2 6/10
		Another pretty disappointing sequel, but that disappointment is fairly unsurprising in this case. A harem with no interest in really shaking up the status quo will exhaust its welcome, and adding characters simply shallows out the pool. Unless the upcoming movie really changes my mind I have next to no expectations for the series going forward.
	Nagatoro 7/10
		If you're on this post you know I was going to watch this show and I got exactly the content I wished for. I also got some really solid character work that made me grin like an idiot for a lot of the runtime and I'm giddy for more. Bless you Nanashi.
	Kanomokano 6/10
		A very, very, very mediocre romcom elevated by one of the most inspired productions I've seen in my years of watching entirely too many of these every year. There's some ok characters with some ok gags going on, but the direction would throw out the most bizarre bits of delivery on every front be it voice work, shot composition, or especially sound direction. Seriously, that direction carried this show. The music choices and sfx would make a grin a giggle, and a giggle a howl. 

Movies?
	Encanto 4/10
		What a spineless movie. Have the fucking balls to commit to a (very, very, VERY slightly) bittersweet theme if that's what you spend the whole time pushing. Other than that though, it was fine? I think it will speak a lot to people from cultures with a stronger sense of filial piety and the associated traumas and insecurities that come with that. I didn't care much for the characters or music. Oh well.
	Luca 8/10
		I'm less of a fan of this than I was of Pixar's previous offering Soul, which is a pretty lame way to start a review but is definitive of my thoughts. It was a very nice time and I'm a big fan of the scope of this story in being a pretty low-stakes affair in this Italian seaside town. Yet, I was not fully engaged with the drama and it didn't hit any particularly resonant notes for me specifically. In the end I still give it an 8/10 and like it a lot so nitpicking is pointless. It's a good movie. 
	Mitchells vs Machines 9/10
		I'd absolutely have loved this movie as a middle schooler. I still love it now. Extremely charming, goofy, heartfelt, I hope the teams at Sony Pictures Animation keep pushing out movies of this calibre with their Spider-Verse imbued energy. Rooting for dinosaur kid and his gf.
	Umibe no Étranger 6/10
		Watched this almost entirely because I saw a glowing recommendation on Twitter a day or two before Endwalker came out and I was desperate to fill time. It was fine, I think it could've used a bit more breathing room to let some dynamics flesh out more naturally, but I really do like the pacing strategy of depicting events months and years apart to let the viewer feel what is really a true depiction of life's pacing. We may live moment to moment, but in the end we mostly experience life as a series of disconnected major moments that impact us enough to remain as an important memory of some kind, events that shape the people we are in the current moment. Okay movie.
	Kud Wafter 4/10
		wow kud is cute 夏だね
		
		||The original content adding the main LB! cast to a handful of Wafter scenes were great, the montage captured a lot of the really good vibes that carried original game, and the most intimate emotional moment was given a really beautiful rendition, but yikes the drama here starting at the halfway mark, especially the KEY MAGIC drama imported from Kud's route and the rest of LB! is incredibly cringe and not my fuwa fuwa Riki-Kud flirting.||
	Josee to Tora to Sakana-tachi 8/10
		I somehow missed this when it initially came out, but I liked it a lot! The couple is perfect, and despite a couple stumbles in the melodrama along the way, the story told succeeds on more or less every level that matters. God give me more scenes like them twirling on the beach. 

Anime de ha nai
	High Guardian Spice 6/10
		After a very length stay in release limbo due to social media chuds flipping their lid at the idea of a SJW writers room, HGS releases to be entirely okay? Like, if this had no baggage attached there is nothing to be mad about. It goes a little hard on openly mentioning transgender topics, and I'm admittedly very much not a fan of how one character is handled in this regard, but as is it pretty much fits in right with the rest of the more narratively focused kids shows people grow up on and love so much. In 15 years there might even be some creators who talk about it as being impactful for themselves. 
		
		Except its not a kids show. It's released on an age-gated site and even has a content warning in the pre-roll. HGS is fucking *weird*. It "feels" like a kids show, in that it's written with an Aesopian moral bent and has the kind of awkward dialogue writing and pacing you completely filter out as a kid but come back as an adult and go "was this show always this goofy". Yet as it is not a kid's show, there is random pieces of graphic violence with blood splatters and adults casually mentioning attending a swingers party. I have no idea who this show is truly for. In the end, it is an unfinished story that will sit in limbo forever due to being such a social media bomb, forever sitting in this position of having no immidiate target audience, and no real way to reach new ones because advertising it invokes a flurry of nerd rage. Looking forward to the Youtube essays that might come out about this saga in a few years.
	iCarly 2021	?/10
		I only watched the 3 episodes it came out with and had a pretty good time. The first episode was especially a hilarious nostalgia rush capitalizing on my years of watching iCarly every day after school for a few years, catching up with a cast and seeing some pretty inspired gags about where they are today as people and how their lives have gone. By the third I was tired and think the nostalgia batteries ran dry, as the new characters are substantially less entertaining and took up increasing amounts of screentime to fill the void of now exhausted gags about Carly being a desperate has-been and Freddy being a divorced co-parent. Disappointed it didn't keep me engaged the whole run, but more disappointed in myself for forgetting to cancel the Paramount+ subscription for half a year.
	
Online
	Shadowlands
		Technically Shadowlands is last year, but a bulk of the many hundreds of hours I dumped into it are this year so here we are. My relationship with WoW is really only matched by mine with Pokemon, as I've been playing it since Spring of 2005. My friend down the street started playing, and convinced me (and my childhood friend since pre-school) to start playing because "you can get a robot chicken and ride it". Hence-forth I began my adventure as a Gnome warlock. I played it off-on for the next few years, never going ALL IN on it for my limited kid free-time (the living room computer was a shared resource after all), but being ever excited for new patches and seeing pictures of new content I would not play as I was less than level 50. Come WotLK though, a big game-changer came. I had my own computer. I was asking for one for a few years and Winter 2008 I convinced my mom at last to get me a GAMING LAPTOP. In hindsight this is probably one of the largest events of my life as the way I spent free-time would forever change. But anyway, now I was able to play WoW with the full fury of a 12 year-old boy, hitting max level and doing a nominal amount of end-game content through guild runs of raids, keeping up with daily chores, doing casual community events like Gnome races and an Alliance reroll guild on Cho'gall. Good times. In 2010 with the release of Cataclysm my investment in the game doubled, I joined a full reroll guild and this was my first time being unvolved in a really dedicated social community. I pushed content as it was current, I got really good at actually playing the game instead of clicking my buttons. I met friends who I speak with on a daily basis to this day. Perhaps most importantly though, the rest of my life began to suffer due to the game for the first time. For all the good it did giving me a place I felt good as a person when the rest of my life made me feel stressed and self-hating, I withdrew from my surroundings while I played. My grades would suffer. I cancelled what few IRL engagements I had for raid on a non-irregular basis. But I was having fun. I truly loved playing the game with all my friends at this point and I wouldn't give up the time I spent on the game that expansion for anything. Unfortunately, Dragon Soul being an awful raid, there being entirely too much League of Legends drama, and SWTOR broke up the guild a couple months into the patch once we finished the tier and were a ways into our heroic prog. We all (like 12-14ish people) said we'd come back to play Mists of Pandaria the coming fall.
		
		Only two-ish of us played MoP that fall. A couple more people played a bit, but not much. The two of us joined up with a clan the friend's sister's boyfriend (now brother-in-law) was playing with and we donated our pretty much maxed out guild (levels/achievements which mattered more at the time) to the cause. My friend I was with chose to reroll to the new class, and power leveled it up to the new cap to play with the raids. This burnt him out to the point he did a single night of the new raid, and promptly quit because he needed to get the fuck away from the game. I kept running solo with them for a few weeks, but felt isolated due to my age (now 15) and the cliqueyness of the established group. Moreover, MoP itself was not particularly fun to play, it forced the player to do way more daily chores to remain relevant, and the first raid tier was not a good raid. I ended up quitting for most of the expansion and coming back with SoO early-2014 to join that same friend who quit, and another member of my Cata guild, in an entirely seperate guild on another server. I had a good time playing at this point, the community we had was good, the content of the patch was fun, and most importantly I was in the best mental state I had ever been in. The preceding spring I had been ejected from my friend group for being a chud (which was good for both of us really) and replaced that with becoming a core part of the group I still talk to daily today, and the preceding fall is when I officially cut ties with my father, thus liberating myself of much mental stress and some shackles on my IRL social opportunities. I was enjoying the time I spent on WoW, the game itself was good for me individually, and I was keeping up with everything I needed to be it school or social obligations. Come the following fall I played WoD release and quit soon after because well, it sucked. I was a freshman in college. A traumatic memory is locked in here of me waiting in the login queue, playing ULTIMATE BOOB WARS 2 while waiting, finishing my personal business with said game, tabbing back in to other browsers for reddit or something while still in queue, my neighbor then popped by to say hi and asked about my queue status since he (being very close friends with my also-WoW playing roomie) knew about the hell going on at the time, so I promptly alt-tabbed right into some anime girls covered in semen. To his credit while this guy absolutely had given me shit about liking anime and anime porn (with no basis despite being very true) in conversations before this point, he never told a soul about this happening or even meaningfully riffed on me again for it and I honestly really really trusted him forever because of it. If he somehow finds this post I hope he know's how much that meant to me. But anyway, I quit WoD after a month-ish, I had other shit 2 do. Then in 2016 Fall, Legion came out and my freshly transferred to in-state community college from out-of-state university and recently dumped self was absolutely on the market to no-life WoW for several months. Legion was a good time, yet while I was very willing to give the game that time it wanted, it didn't make me feel good about it. I got trapped in grinding systems that weren't satisfying to me because I wanted to luck into getting a legendary, and I didn't get a single legendary (making me significantly weaker than anybody else who had one) despite playing several hours daily for 2 months. Keep in mind some people had two legendaries by the end of the second week of the expansion. My friend in a similar boat hit one a couple weeks before that 2 month mark, except it was by far the worst (unusable for his spec in any content) and it just got him to quit the game entirely. Alone and without items to get me into a new group, and very burnt out from spinning the slots to get that item, I moved on.
		
		I could keep going for BFA, but this is the trend. I have *always* played WoW, and I likely always will in some amount. I feel good and play the game as long as it facilitates that feeling good. A majority of the time I quit has been the result fundamentally of the game no longer being fun to give my time to. I willingly hamstrung my potential time spent for the recent expansions to avoid having locked down free-time during school to keep my social availability higher. Yet Shadowlands came in the depths of pandemic -- there is *no* social life for it to interrupt. I started playing WoW Classic organized raiding earlier in the year because it lined up well with that, and Shadowlands with all my Classic friends was a natural extension of that. It was fun, truly truly fun for a long, long while there. I can't say when that changed. I was raiding 12 hours a week for almost half of this year, and playing for probably another 20+ hours outside of that. Maybe we spent too long progging heroic Darkvein and Daddy D. Perhaps Naxx runs week in week out got to me. The torture of M+ weekly vaults might have become too much. It's hard to say. TBC Classic launched and broke the retail raid cycle for a bit, but soon enough the mere thought of doing Karazhan made me anxious as raid nights approached. 9.2 came. I enjoyed the new zone, it was fun having some new stuff to work on, swapping to a new main for the new patch. But none of what made me begin to hate the game had changed. New weekly timers to feel a looming dread over, infinite chores I needed to stay on top of, all of it was there and now more. Yet I kept playing. I pressed the button and recieved the dopamine hit. Around this time another thing happened though: pandemic restrictions loosened up. I ended up missing one of my classic raids to hang out and get dinner with friends, and one of the things we talked about was how despite having reached a state of "more free time than ever before" because of WFH, next to no obligations social or official, and minimized time outside the home in general, it felt like we had *no time at all*. The very notion of returning to a society where we had several hours taken out of our days for commutes, busy work, or even just a normal amount of socializing sounded almost scary. Something idly brought up when talking about things they had to consume time with now was mobile game dailies, something I had always been more or less consciously good at recognizing as "I am no longer having fun" when I had a sinking feeling in my gut at 11:30 pm before resets to rush them out every day. The nuance in this case though was the conflation of dailies and "obligations" such as work, and that flipped a switch. For who knows how long now, I had been subconsciously banking WoW as "work" in my head and it was taking up the according amount of mental energy. I "had no time for anything" because the thing I spent the vast majority of my free time was not happy/willingly being done, it was simple addiction and inertia. Worse still, because it was a combo of being work AND a social obligation, I was completely run dry of energy to make myself do things that weren't low effort. What was always low effort? Grinding more random garbage on WoW. A self feeding loop of not having fun feeling bad and making it so I could only keep making myself feel worse and worse. There was a distinct moment where my partner pre-emptively said something along the lines of "you'll never want to do something so we'll just do x it doesn't matter" which I couldn't say anything about, because at this point I *didn't* want to do anything else. As if to hand me the proof that this epiphany was the truth of it all, that week I skipped raiding was the best I had felt in months. I wanted to play other games with people, read more, do *something* with my time. At first I refused to retail raid, but come the start of P2 in TBC, I couldn't make myself do the attunement quests for SSC/TK. I was done. I needed to be done. 
		
		It's too easy to not change things in your life from inertia. If you can do something to make yourself happier on a day to day basis, do it.
		
		game thoughts: xpac had a solid questing experience and the bulk of the content is very satisfying (daddy d is a VERY cool boss), but the systems encourage far too much repetition on a scheduled basis for rewards of all kinds, without being fundamentally player goal-driven thus encouraging burnout when you start running yourself ragged and feeling bad about falling behind on your chores. some major design flaws restricting player options such as covenants led to extremely feelsbad choices while also just restricting the player from having more things to do. it wasn't the worst expansion ever, but the decisions made are pretty much perfectly emblematic of modern WoW and how it fails to retain player love, even if it can hold their wallets. 
		
	TBC Classic
		My experience with Classic was surprising, I was a long standing agreer with "you think you do, but you don't", but as I binged the leveling process during the last couple months post graduation before I began full-time employment, I found it to be a genuinely amazing game. The gameplay is satisfying, Vanilla questing has way more story quality to it than I ever gave it credit for, and it's a phenomenal social sandbox for exploring a world and having emergent gameplay with the friends and foes around you. TBC Classic pre-launch was more or less the last hurrah of this experience -- the world was revived once more as everyone leveled their Belves and Draenei, and I had a really fun couple of weeks power leveling mine up to 60 before TBC launched in proper. It's tragic that the social world of a "fresh" classic experience, something still new to everyone despite omnipresent online knowledge will never exist again. I hope the Riot MMO can invoke that feeling for but a single second. The actual new 60-70 leveling stretch was torturous and bad. Server imbalance killed early TBC for me as I had a really bad fucking time, and by the time my guild transferred, I was already just wanting to raid log. Then I quit. Oh well, good times for some of it!
		
	ShB
		I first played ARR in 2013 beta, it really really sucked. I got roped into playing the full game at the very end of ARR just before and a bit after Heavensward, it still sucked. I played again during early Stormblood, that was more fun but I still was of the mind "I'd rather be playing WoW". That has never truly changed even to this day, despite again picking up the game for a month here or there along the way. But this year, I decided I needed to finally get caught up on the story so I could see the HYPE people had given the Shadowbringers expansion. So I buckled down and leveled through the end of HW, through SB and finally ShB. The story was great! Yet, I can't help but feel that being an MMO is in a lot of ways the worst thing about this story. Fetch-quest pacing does not lend itself to cinematic storytelling. At the same time, the story works as well as it does because it is an MMO, taking full advantage of the player avatar slate and the investment people carry with their virtual identity and projecting them into many myriad journies. Odd stuff. Anyway, also finally got to try the endgame in some capacity here, and came to some level of terms with the game design as a unique entity going for some unique things that gives the game merit other than being lesser-WoW. (but it's still mostly just lesser-WoW).
	EW
		Damn why can't every game get to build off 10 years of world building and continuous narrative escalation. Kinowalker is beautiful. What a fucking story. (story-quest pacing complaints still apply)
		
		I appreciate the endgame of XIV being very low commitment. Easy to keep up with and not sell my life to. :)
		
	GG Strive
		Wish a character I liked was in this game! Dizzy/Bridget dlc any day! :hopium:
		
	Pokemon Unite
		Surprisingly one of the better non League-mobas I've tried. Pretty light and addicting to grind out matches, and I really like the roster picks. Unfortunately the game isn't just beating up 8 year olds, sometimes the 8 year olds are on your team and you want to throttle them because the monkeys won't go where you want and the game has nonexistent communication tools. Fun times.
		
	MB Lumina
		rip Sacchin and Len
		
	Nick Brawl
		This game hurt my hands. The zoomer cartoon girl was pretty fun. 
		
	Halo Infinite
		I had a good time the few matches I played, scratched a tiny bit of my ancient split screen nostalgia.
		
	TFT
		The newest set is great, can't even remember the old one now. Very fun game to open up now and then and relearn the meta and play some matches. One day my dream of a full 8 man in-house will happen.

I play, I drop, I stall again
	Bravely Default 2 (STALLED probably forever idk)
		The characters are fucking boring man. I can't get invested in cozy lowkey RPG if I just want everyone to stop talking every time. BD1/2nd had Edea who had more personality in her fingertip than anything in this game did. 
		
	MH Rise (BEAT ?)
		MH good. 
		
	Pokemon SP (BEAT)
		I never realized as a kid just how many Meditites you have to beat in this game. Like, you associate Pokemon like Geodude as random mook trainer pokemon, but DP have you fight a bunch of Meditites. And geodudes. and budew. and glameow. But the Meditites stand out from that set ever so slightly.
		
	Nier Replicant (STALLED until I finish my FF hell)
		why am I bad at Japanese
		
	AA JFA (BEAT)
		After playing the first case/two maybe 4 times over the past decade, finally finished the whole thing up. Was pretty good. Some very meme stuff in that final case.
		
	Warioware (BEAT ?)
		I may have only played it for one day, but it was a good time to clown with the bois.

Visual Novels kekw
	Muramasa
		I stalled in the middle of the true route, will finish it soon tm

Youtube Binges of note
	Adam Ragusea
		very quality background noise thanks youtube algo. I saved the pizza recipe videos, might try soon tm
		
	Defunctland
		Worked my way through a majority of their uploads after watching the remarkable 2 hour documentary on the history of the Fast Pass. Unfortunately fairly repetitive in video structure, and videos can feel extremely samey after watching a bunch of them. The best videos thankfully are fairly standalone and offer really cool deep dives into some topics near and dear to my 90s kid heart.
		
	Tim Rogers
		The Tokimeki Memorial review from the start of this year was almost life-changing. All of Tim's content is entertaining in its own right, but there is something truly beautiful in his ability to evoke the total mindset of a particular moment. Sections of his reviews like when he talks about the two dudes from lunch during his DOOM review, or really any of his written articles (namely the Medium piece on hyperthemesia and the "Inverted Review" of FFVI) put me in a really introspective funk. I want to do something more with my life. I feel that so much of what I have done, and am doing, I regret in some way. I want to make a memory that I look back on and don't feel that. To not have to justify a feeling with "I did the best I could in that moment", but to look back and simply think "those were some good times". 
		
	